/*********************************************************************
 *
 * File        :  $Source$
 *
 * Purpose     :  INSTALL file to help with installing from source.
 *
 * Copyright   :  Written by and Copyright (C) 2001,2002 the SourceForge
 *                Privoxy team. http://www.privoxy.org/
 *
 *                Based on the Internet Junkbuster originally written
 *                by and Copyright (C) 1997 Anonymous Coders and 
 *                Junkbusters Corporation.  http://www.junkbusters.com
 *
 *                This program is free software; you can redistribute it 
 *                and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General
 *                Public License as published by the Free Software
 *                Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at
 *                your option) any later version.
 *
 *                This program is distributed in the hope that it will
 *                be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the
 *                implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
 *                PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public
 *                License for more details.
 *
 *                The GNU General Public License should be included with
 *                this file.  If not, you can view it at
 *                http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html
 *                or write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59
 *                Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307, USA.
 *
 *********************************************************************/
   

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To build Privoxy from source, autoconf, GNU make (gmake), and, of course, a C
compiler like gcc are required.

When building from a source tarball (either release version or nightly CVS
tarball), first unpack the source:

 tar xzvf privoxy-3.1.1-beta-src* [.tgz or .tar.gz]                            
 cd privoxy-3.1.1-beta                                                         

For retrieving the current CVS sources, you'll need CVS installed. Note that
sources from CVS are development quality, and may not be stable, or well
tested. To download CVS source:

  cvs -d:pserver:anonymous@cvs.ijbswa.sourceforge.net:/cvsroot/ijbswa login          
  cvs -z3 -d:pserver:anonymous@cvs.ijbswa.sourceforge.net:/cvsroot/ijbswa co current 
  cd current                                                                         

This will create a directory named current/, which will contain the source
tree.

You can also check out any Privoxy "branch", just exchange the current name
with the wanted branch name (Example: v_3_0_branch for the 3.0 cvs tree).

It is also recommended to not run Privoxy as root, and instead it is suggested
to create a "privoxy" user for this purpose.

/etc/passwd might then look like:

  privoxy:*:7777:7777:privoxy proxy:/no/home:/no/shell                         

And then /etc/group, like:

  privoxy:*:7777:privoxy                                                       

Some binary packages may do this for you.

Then, to build from either unpacked tarball or CVS source:

 autoheader                                                                    
 autoconf                                                                      
 ./configure      # (--help to see options)                                    
 make             # (the make from gnu, gmake for *BSD)                        
 su                                                                            
 make -n install  # (to see where all the files will go)                       
 make install     # (to really install)                                        

If you have GNU make, you can have the first four steps automatically done for
you by just typing:

  make                                                                         

in the freshly downloaded or unpacked source directory.

The default installation path for make install is /usr/local. This may of
course be customized with the various ./configure path options. configure also
accepts a --with-user and --with-group options for setting user and group
ownership.

If you do install to /usr/local, the install will use sysconfdir=$prefix/etc/
privoxy by default. All other destinations, and the direct usage of
--sysconfdir flag behave like normal, i.e. will not add the extra privoxy
directory. This is for a safer install, as there may already exist another
program that uses a file with the "config" name, and thus makes /usr/local/etc
cleaner.

If installing to /usr/local, the docs will go by default to $prefix/share/doc.
But if this directory doesn't exist, it will then try $prefix/doc and install
there before creating a new $prefix/share/doc just for Privoxy.

Again, if the installs goes to /usr/local, the localstatedir (ie: var/) will
default to /var instead of $prefix/var so the logs will go to /var/log/privoxy
/, and the pid file will be created in /var/run/privoxy.pid.

make install will attempt to set the correct values in config (main
configuration file). If appropriate, an init script will be installed, but it
is up to the user to determine how and where to start Privoxy.

For more detailed instructions on how to build Redhat and SuSE RPMs, Windows
self-extracting installers, building on platforms with special requirements
etc, please consult the developer manual.

For binary RPM installation, and other platforms, see the User Manual as well.

