
/*********************************************************************
 *
 * File        :  $Source$
 *
 * Purpose     :  README file to give a short intro.
 *
 * Copyright   :  Written by and Copyright (C) 2001 the SourceForge
 *                Privoxy team. http://www.privoxy.org/
 *
 *                Based on the Internet Junkbuster originally written
 *                by and Copyright (C) 1997 Anonymous Coders and 
 *                Junkbusters Corporation.  http://www.junkbusters.com
 *
 *                This program is free software; you can redistribute it 
 *                and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General
 *                Public License as published by the Free Software
 *                Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at
 *                your option) any later version.
 *
 *                This program is distributed in the hope that it will
 *                be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the
 *                implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
 *                PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public
 *                License for more details.
 *
 *                The GNU General Public License should be included with
 *                this file.  If not, you can view it at
 *                http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html
 *                or write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59
 *                Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307, USA.
 *
 *********************************************************************/
   

This README is included with the development version of Privoxy 2.9.14, which
will eventually become Privoxy v3.0 (and soon we hope!). See http://
www.privoxy.org/ for more information. The current code level is beta, and
seems stable to us :).

Privoxy is a web proxy with advanced filtering capabilities for protecting
privacy, filtering web page content, managing cookies, controlling access, and
removing ads, banners, pop-ups and other obnoxious Internet junk. Privoxy has a
very flexible configuration and can be customized to suit individual needs and
tastes. Privoxy has application for both stand-alone systems and multi-user
networks.

Privoxy is based on Internet Junkbuster (tm).


 IMPORTANT CHANGES
------------------

NEWS! As of 03/24/02, the name of this project has been changed from ijbswa/
Junkbuster to Privoxy. This is reflected in many of the included files.

WARNING! If upgrading from earlier versions of this project via RPM packages,
the new package will delete any previously installed 'Junkbuster' packages.

IMPORTANT! READ! Configuration Change as of 17 Mar 2002: The default listening
port is now 8118 due to conflicts with port 8000 assignment. You will need to
change your browser if upgrading!!! And maybe firewall, etc.


 INSTALL
--------

To build Privoxy from source, autoheader, autoconf, GNU make (gmake), and, of
course, a C compiler are required.

When building from a source tarball (either release version or nightly CVS
tarball), first unpack the source:

 tar xzvf privoxy-2.9.14-beta-src* [.tgz or .tar.gz]                           
 cd privoxy-2.9.14-beta                                                        
                                                                               

For retrieving the current CVS sources, you'll need CVS installed. Note that
sources from CVS are development quality, and may not be stable, or well
tested. To download CVS source:

  cvs -d:pserver:anonymous@cvs.ijbswa.sourceforge.net:/cvsroot/ijbswa login          
  cvs -z3 -d:pserver:anonymous@cvs.ijbswa.sourceforge.net:/cvsroot/ijbswa co current 
  cd current                                                                         
                                                                                     

This will create a directory named current/, which will contain the source
tree.

Then, in either case, to build from unpacked tarball or CVS source:

 autoheader                                                                    
 autoconf                                                                      
 ./configure      # (--help to see options)                                    
 make             # (the make from gnu, gmake for *BSD)                        
 su                                                                            
 make -n install  # (to see where all the files will go)                       
 make install     # (to really install)                                        
                                                                               

If you have gnu make, you can have the first four steps automatically done for
you by just typing:

  make                                                                         
                                                                               

in the freshly downloaded or unpacked source directory.

For more detailed instructions on how to build Redhat and SuSE RPMs, Windows
self-extracting installers, building on platforms with special requirements
etc, please consult the developer manual.

For binary RPM installation, and other platforms, see the user-manual as well.


 RUN
---- 

privoxy [--help] [--version] [--no-daemon] [--pidfile PIDFILE] [--user USER
[.GROUP]] [config_file]

See the man page or user-manual for a brief explanation of each option.

If no config_file is specified on the command line, Privoxy will look for a
file named 'config' in the current directory (except Win32 which will look for
'config.txt'). If no config_file is found, Privoxy will fail to start.

Or for Red Hat: /etc/rc.d/init.d/privoxy start

Or for SuSE: /etc/rc.d/privoxy start


 CONFIGURATION
-------------- 

See: 'config', 'default.action', 'user.action', and 'default.filter'.
'user.action' is for personal configuration. These are all well commented. Most
of the magic is in '*.action' files. 'user.action' should be used for any
actions customizations. On Unix-like systems, these files are installed in /etc
/privoxy. On Windows, then wherever the executable itself is installed. There
are many significant changes and advances since Junkbuster v2.0.x. The
user-manual has a run down of configuration options, and examples: http://
www.privoxy.org/user-manual/.

Be sure to set your browser(s) for HTTP/HTTPS Proxy at <IP>:<Port>, or whatever
you specify in the config file under 'listen-address'. DEFAULT is localhost:
8118.

The actions list can be configured via the web interface accessed via http://
p.p/, as well other options.

All configuration files are subject to unannounced changes during the
development process.


 DOCUMENTATION
--------------

There should be documentation in the 'doc' subdirectory, but it is not
completed at this point. In particular, see the user-manual there, the faq, and
those interested in Privoxy development, should look at developer-manual.

The most up to date source of information on the current development version,
may still be either comments in the source code, or the included configuration
files. The source and configuration files are all well commented. The main
configuration files are: 'config', 'default.action', and 'default.filter' in
the toplevel source directory.

Included documentation may vary according to platform and packager.


 CONTACTING THE DEVELOPERS, BUG REPORTING AND FEATURE REQUESTS
--------------------------------------------------------------

We value your feedback. However, to provide you with the best support, please
note:

  * Use the Sourceforge Support Forum to get help:
       
        http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=11118&atid=211118
       
   
  * Submit bugs only through our Sourceforge Bug Forum:
     
        http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=11118&atid=111118. 
        
   
    Make sure that the bug has not already been submitted. Please try to verify
    that it is a Privoxy bug, and not a browser or site bug first. If you are
    using your own custom configuration, please try the stock configs to see if
    the problem is a configuration related bug. And if not using the latest
    development snapshot, please try the latest one. Or even better, CVS
    sources. Please be sure to include the Privoxy/Junkbuster version,
    platform, browser, any pertinent log data, any other relevant details
    (please be specific) and, if possible, some way to reproduce the bug.
   
  * Submit feature requests only through our Sourceforge feature request forum:
     
        http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?atid=361118&group_id=11118&func=browse.
       
   
  * You can also send feedback on websites that Privoxy has problems with. Please bookmark
    the following link: "Privoxy - Submit Filter Feedback"
    . Once you surf to a page with problems, use the
    bookmark to send us feedback. We will look into the issue as soon as possible.
       
   
  * For any other issues, feel free to use the mailing lists:
     
        http://sourceforge.net/mail/?group_id=11118.
     
   
    Anyone interested in actively participating in development and related
    discussions can also join the appropriate mailing list. Archives are
    available, too.
   
 -------------------------------------------------------------------------
 ijbswa-developers@lists.sourceforge.net
 

$Id$

